Add documentation for bill of materials (#414)
buildpacks/docs: content/docs/features/bill-of-materials.md

+++
title="Bill of Materials"
summary="A Software `Bill-of-Materials` (`BOM`) gives you a layer-by-layer view of what's inside your container in a variety of formats including `JSON`."
+++

## Summary
A Software `Bill-of-Materials` (`BOM`) gives you a layer-by-layer view of what's inside your container in a variety of formats including `JSON`. Buildpacks can also populate your app image with metadata from the build process, allowing you to audit the app image for information like, the process types that are available and the commands associated with them, buildpacks which were used to create the app image etc. Apart from the above standard metadata, buildpacks can also populate information about the dependencies they have provided in form of a `Bill-of-Materials` (`BOM`).

## Adding Bill of Materials
Use the following tutorial to add a `Bill-of-Materials` using buildpacks. <br/>
[Adding bill of materials][adding-bill-of-materials]

## Viewing Bill of Materials
You can use this command to inspect your app for it's `Bill-of-Materials`.

```bash
pack inspect-image your-image-name --bom
```

> 

Reviewer: Should we also add that in can be access by looking at the label `io.buildpacks.build.metadata` for example running docker CLI and jq:

```
docker inspect your-image-name | jq -r '.[0].Config.Labels["io.buildpacks.build.metadata"] | fromjson'
```

+++
title="Bill of Materials"
summary="A Software `Bill-of-Materials` (`BOM`) gives you a layer-by-layer view of what's inside your container in a variety of formats including `JSON`."
+++

## Summary

> A Software `Bill-of-Materials` (`BOM`) gives you a layer-by-layer view of what's inside your container in a variety of formats including `JSON`. Buildpacks can also populate your app image with metadata from the build process, allowing you to audit the app image for information like, the process types that are available and the commands associated with them, buildpacks which were used to create the app image etc. Apart from the above standard metadata, buildpacks can also populate information about the dependencies they have provided in form of a `Bill-of-Materials` (`BOM`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Software **Bill-of-Materials** (`BOM`) provides information necessary to know what's inside your container and how it was constructed. 

Cloud Native Buildpacks provide two forms of Bill-of-Materials.

1. Buildpacks can populate `BOM` information about the dependencies they have provided.
2. A list of what buildpacks were used to build the application.
```

1. When we talk about the BoMs itself, I'm not sure that the format in which it is stored is too relevant.
2. The latter part of the paragraph seems to simply describe how buildpacks work and not necessarily related to BoMs

In my suggested changes I try to break down the information listed in `io.buildpacks.build.metadata`.
* `bom` is the buildpack populated bom
* `buildpacks` is the list of buildpacks.

See:

```
{
  "bom": [
    {
      "name": "some-world",
      "metadata": null,
      "buildpack": {
        "id": "samples/hello-world",
        "version": "0.0.1"
      }
    }
  ],
  "buildpacks": [
    {
      "homepage": "https://github.com/buildpacks/samples/tree/main/buildpacks/hello-world",
      "id": "samples/hello-world",
      "version": "0.0.1"
    }
  ],
  "launcher": {
    "version": "0.11.3",
    "source": {
      "git": {
        "repository": "github.com/buildpacks/lifecycle",
        "commit": "aa4bbac"
      }
    }
  },
  "processes": []
}
```

## Adding Bill of Materials
Use the following tutorial to add a `Bill-of-Materials` using buildpacks. <br/>
[Adding bill of materials][adding-bill-of-materials]

## Viewing Bill of Materials
You can use this command to inspect your app for it's `Bill-of-Materials`.

```bash
pack inspect-image your-image-name --bom
```
It can also be accessed by looking at the label `io.buildpacks.build.metadata`. For example, running Docker CLI, jq and using the following command.

```bash
docker inspect your-image-name | jq -r '.[0].Config.Labels["io.buildpacks.build.metadata"] | fromjson'
```

> 

Reviewer: I may be worth adding an example of what the outputs look like.

2. A list of what buildpacks were used to build the application.

## Adding Bill of Materials

Use the following tutorial to add a `Bill-of-Materials` using buildpacks. <br/>
[Adding bill of materials][adding-bill-of-materials]

## Viewing Bill of Materials

You can use this command to inspect your app for it's `Bill-of-Materials`.

```bash
pack inspect-image your-image-name --bom
```

It can also be accessed by looking at the label `io.buildpacks.build.metadata`. For example, running Docker CLI, jq and using the following command.

```bash
docker inspect your-image-name | jq -r '.[0].Config.Labels["io.buildpacks.build.metadata"] | fromjson'
```

Following is the the information listed in `io.buildpacks.build.metadata` for [Sample Java App](https://github.com/buildpacks/samples/tree/main/apps/java-maven) obtained by building the app using buildpacks and running the above command.

For this output:

1. `bom` is the buildpack populated bom.
2. `buildpacks` is the list of buildpacks.

```
{
  "bom": [
    {
      "name": "jdk",
      "metadata": null,
      "buildpack": {
        "id": "samples/java-maven",
        "version": "0.0.1"

>       }

Reviewer: Unfortunately this is a poor example of the bom because the sample buildpacks don't provide useful information :(

I'd be willing to accept it as-is but it would be really nice to have the buildpack actually produce good metadata.

+++

## Summary

A Software **Bill-of-Materials** (`BOM`) provides information necessary to know what's inside your container and how it was constructed.
Cloud Native Buildpacks provide two forms of Bill-of-Materials.

1. Buildpacks can populate `BOM` information about the dependencies they have provided.
2. A list of what buildpacks were used to build the application.

## Adding Bill of Materials

Use the following tutorial to add a `Bill-of-Materials` using buildpacks. <br/>
[Adding bill of materials][adding-bill-of-materials]

## Viewing Bill of Materials

You can use this command to inspect your app for it's `Bill-of-Materials`.

```bash
pack inspect-image your-image-name --bom
```

It can also be accessed by looking at the label `io.buildpacks.build.metadata`. For example, running Docker CLI, jq and using the following command.

```bash
docker inspect your-image-name | jq -r '.[0].Config.Labels["io.buildpacks.build.metadata"] | fromjson'
```

> Following is the the information listed in `io.buildpacks.build.metadata` for [Sample Java App](https://github.com/buildpacks/samples/tree/main/apps/java-maven) obtained by building the app using buildpacks and running the above command.

Reviewer 2: Do we want to advertise this label to users given that we will soon be moving away from it?

Author: Probably just mention the command and remove the description? also why are we moving away from it, any references to learn more about it. :)

Reviewer: > Do we want to advertise this label to users given that we will soon be moving away from it?

I always have a conflict with this. Things always change. I'm not a fan of _waiting_ for an upcoming change to block describing the world for what it is now. It seems like a quick follow-up item to remove/replace this once that change comes to fruition. Thoughts?
